# Read Flir Images
This program is designed to help users capture and analyze thermal images over the period of days to enable long term monitoring of BAT, tail, and rump temperatures. I have found that rump temperature is a fairly good correlate of core temperature. An example of this monitoring can be found at Grady et al. iScience 2024 "Parabrachial Foxp2-expressing neurons are necessary for cold defense". In Fig 5 and S5.

To use this program, you will need two Flir cameras that can use the Atlas SDK (https://www.flir.com/support-center/instruments2/which-flir-cameras-are-supported-by-the-atlas-sdk/). I would recommend the Flir C2 camera, which can be found second-hand for roughly $200. These cameras need to be positioned above the mice so that they have a clear view of the mice at all times. Note that these thermal cameras are not able to image through glass or acrylic. The Geerling lab at UIowa has some cages that have been specifically designed for this purpose; Fillan Grady can also provide plans. These cameras should then be connected to the computer with a micro-USB to USB cable. Each camera has a unique id that you will need (ie "720020345"). As far as I know, you will have to get this id number by running my code in debug mode. For further instructions, contact Fillan Grady. These id numbers are hardcoded in the camera = new string[] {...} line in Capture Flir Images, and will need to be changed.

The Capture Flir Images program captures these images and saves them to the hard drive. The user can input where images should be saved, and the frequency with which images should be taken (in seconds, default is 60). After the images are captured, the "Read Flir Images Tail" program can be used to analyze for BAT and tail temperature. On each image, right click on the base of the tail, which will create a red circle. Place the dot over the tail, and left click to find the tail temperature. Similarly, the "Read Flir Images Rump" program can be used to analyze for BAT and rump temperature. On each image, right click on the rump. This will create a red circle, and the "rump temperature" is reported as the average temperature in the circle. Both of these programs will export to an excel file.

For further help, please contact Fillan Grady at fillangrady@gmail.com or Joel Geerling at joel-geerling@uiowa.edu
